[ty] Error context for assignability diagnostics (#24309)
astral-sh/ruff: crates/ty_python_semantic/resources/mdtest/diagnostics/invalid_assignment_details.md

7 | def _(source: Callable[[int, str], bool]):
8 |     target: Callable[[int, bytes], bool] = source  # snapshot
  |

> info: incompatible return types `None` and `bool`

Reviewer: nit: clarify the direction in which assignability needs to hold? "compatible" is (in general) a bit of an imprecise term for these situations. e.g. something like "incompatible return types: `None` is not assignable to `bool`"

  |         ---------------------------- `Parent.method` defined here
3 |         raise NotImplementedError
  |

> info: incompatible parameter types `bytes` and `str`

Reviewer: Would it be helpful / possible to mention the parameter name? In this case of course it's obvious; if there were many parameters of similar types, it might not be.

Also, similar to above comment, maybe clarify the direction in which assignability needs to hold, rather than just using "incompatible" alone?

"incompatible types for parameter `x`: `bytes` is not assignable to `str`"

Author: > Would it be helpful / possible to mention the parameter name? In this case of course it's obvious; if there were many parameters of similar types, it might not be.

Yes, I mentioned this in the PR description (*We only add very basic support for callables here. For example, we only say "incompatible parameter types" without pointing at a specific parameter, for example. This can obviously be improved*). I can take a look tomorrow to see how difficult it would be to integrate right away. Otherwise, I would postpone it to get this first step merged.

> Also, similar to above comment, maybe clarify the direction in which assignability needs to hold, rather than just using "incompatible" alone?

:+1:

Reviewer: Postponing is fine! Sorry I didn't catch that in the PR description.

Author: It wasn't that hard to support, so I added this now. I also added support for identifying a parameter by index, in case you're assigning to `Callable`, for example:

<img width="1576" height="438" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f86b684c-c75b-4c3f-851f-547bba51ff2b" />

There are probably ways to improve this, but since we're going to invest more times into callables anyway, I will postpone that part.

Reviewer 2: > There are probably ways to improve this,

Yeah, I had to stare at those two signatures for a second before I remembered contravariance was a thing 😆

   |         ---------------------------- `Parent.method` defined here
 3 |         raise NotImplementedError
   |

> info: parameter `y` does not match `x` (and can be used as a keyword parameter)

Reviewer: nit: to say one parameter does not match another is a bit ambiguous -- does it mean the annotated types don't match? Might help to specifically clarify that we are talking about a parameter _name_ mismatch

10 | class CheckWithWrongSignature:
11 |     def check(self, x: int, y: bytes) -> bool:
   |

> info: type `DoesNotHaveCheck` is not compatible with protocol `SupportsCheck`

Reviewer: nit: "is not assignable to" rather than "is not compatible with"?

   |             |
   |             Declared type
   |
info: type `Incompatible` is not assignable to protocol `SupportsCheck`
info: └── protocol member `check1` is incompatible

> info:     └── parameter `x` has an incompatible type: `str` is not assignable to `bytes`

Author: (moving this comment)

Due to short circuting, we only report one incompatible protocol member. Again, this can be improved, but this is hopefully already more helpful than not showing anything.

  |             |
  |             Declared type
  |

> info: type `list[str]` is not assignable to protocol `Iterable[bytes]`
> info: └── protocol member `__iter__` is incompatible
> info:     └── incompatible return types: `Iterator[str]` is not assignable to `Iterator[bytes]`
> info:         └── protocol `Iterator[str]` is not assignable to protocol `Iterator[bytes]`
> info:             └── incompatible return types: `str` is not assignable to `bytes`

Author: (moving this comment)

This is not technically wrong but could certainly be improved with a dedicated hint that summarizes this as something like
```suggestion
info: type `list[str]` is not assignable to protocol `Iterable[bytes]`
info: └── expected an iterator over `bytes`, but got `str`
```
